TWENTY TWENTY TWO ZONING
APPEALS MEETING.
I&apos;M CANDICE PRIOR, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN
THE APPLICANT OR THEY&apos;RE
REPRESENTING WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WE&apos;LL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NUMBER NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX
FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
WE WILL ALLOW AN OPINION PARTY
TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT OR
OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THAT APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY THE
DECISION OF THE BOARD CAN
APPEAL THAT DECISION TO THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
ON A TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL ELIZABETH NELSON HERE
TO GRANT CHRIS FRALEY JULIA
GOOD CHRIS MADIGAN HERE.
DAVE AVERRING DAVE ALREADY HERE
MIKE DANIEL HERE.
CANDICE PRYOR.
I&apos;M ALSO HERE I WILL NOTE THAT
WE DO HAVE A QUORUM WITH FIVE
MEMBERS BUT IT DOES TAKE FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO APPROVE
ANY VARIANCE REQUEST OR
PERMISSION TO ALTER
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
SO EVERY APPEAL THIS EVENING
WOULD NEED UNANIMOUS APPROVAL
BY THE BOARD IN ORDER TO BE
GRANTED ONE NO VOTE WILL DENY
ANY ANY APPEAL.
SO TYPICALLY IN THIS SITUATION
WE GIVE THE PETITIONERS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO REQUEST A
POSTPONEMENT TO A FUTURE
MEETING WHEN WE HAVE MORE MORE
MEMBERS PRESENT.
SO IF ANY OF THE PETITIONERS
HERE THIS EVENING WISH TO TAKE
US UP ON THAT OFFER AND REQUEST
THAT THEIR APPLICATION BE
POSTPONED TO THE JUNE MEETING,
PLEASE LET US KNOW WE&apos;LL STILL
DO THE PUBLIC HEARING BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY THE THE ITEMS HAVE
ALL BEEN NOTICED BUT WE WON&apos;T
MAKE A DECISION THIS EVENING IF
ANY PETITIONERS REQUEST
POSTPONEMENT.
IF YOU ARE A PETITIONER YOU
WISH TO POSTPONE JUST LET US
KNOW WHEN WE GET TO YOUR ITEM
ON THE AGENDA.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CHANGES REGARDING THE
AGENDA IF NOT THE MOTION OF THE
AGENDA?
MOTION FOR MIKE.
THANK YOU.
SUPPORT, SUPPORT DIVERSITY.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED.
THANK YOU.
MOVING TO APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE APRIL
TWENTY SEVENTH TWENTY TWENTY
TWO MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTION OR
CORRECTIONS TO THOSE MINUTES?
IF NOT I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM APRIL
MOTION FOR MY THANK YOU SUPPORT
AND SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM CHRIS.
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR.
I PROPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS WE
HAVE FIRST PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO SIX FOUR
ONE THREE S DIVISION STREET
JUMP WELL PHUKET&apos;S
I&apos;M JOHN
ZONING COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
THE FIRST PETITION THAT&apos;S NINE
TONIGHT A ZIBA TWENTY TWO DASH
TWO THOUSAND SIX THE ADDRESS IS
413 S DIVISION STREET CHRIS AND
DENNIS VESSELS PROPERTY OWNERS
ARE REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO CREATE
HABITABLE LIVING SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT OF A SIX UNIT SEVEN
BEDROOM RENTAL HOME.
THE RENOVATION PROJECT WILL
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
SIX UNITS TO FOUR UNITS WHILE
INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF BEDROOMS TO TWENTY THE
PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR FORESEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND IS AND
NONCONFORMING FOR LOT AREA LOT
WITH AND SETBACKS.
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
THE EAST SIDE OF SOUTH DIVISION
STREET DUE SOUTH OF EAST
WILLIAM STREET.
THE STRUCTURE IS THE NORTHERN
PROPERTY FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN&apos;S INSTITUTE
OF SOCIAL RESEARCH.
THE RESIDENCE WAS CONSTRUCTED
IN NINETEEN EIGHTY ONE AND IS
APPROXIMATE TWO THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED FIFTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION WILL
CREATE ONE IN THE BASEMENT
CONTAINING FIVE BEDROOMS AND
THREE BATHROOMS.
UNIT TWO IS TO BE LOCATED ON
THE FIRST FLOOR AS A SIX
BEDROOM THREE BATHROOM UNIT
UNIT THREE WILL BE ON THE
SECOND FLOOR AND CONSIST OF SIX
BEDROOMS AND THREE BATHROOMS AS
WELL.
THE THIRD STORY WILL HOUSE UNIT
FOUR WITH THREE BEDROOMS AND
TWO BATHROOMS.
ALL RENOVATIONS WILL TAKE PLACE
WITHIN THE CURRENT ENVELOPE
OF A HOME AND THERE WILL BE NO
CHANGES TO THE LENGTH WITH OR
HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY WILL BE
UPGRADED SIGNIFICANTLY WITH
SPRAY FOAM INSULATION AND HIGH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY APPLIANCES
WHILE BRINGING THE BUILDING UP
TO OUR MODERN BUILDING CODES.
IF YOU&apos;LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS I&apos;LL DO THE
POWERPOINT PRESENTATION.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP.
YOU SEE A ZONING THAT YOU SEE
THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL IN
YELLOW THE CENTER OF YOUR
SCREEN EAST OF DIVISION.
IT&apos;S JUST SOUTH OF EAST WILLIAM
STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP.
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL
PROPERTY AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS IN SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THESE ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THESE ARE THIS
IS SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
SHOWING EXTERIOR ELEVATION AND
THIS ATTACHED TO THE SURVEY AS
WELL.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE FOR
THE PROPOSED FLOOR PLAN OF THE
FIRST FLOOR.
YOU SEE IT&apos;S THE SIX BEDROOMS
AND THREE BATHROOMS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SECOND
FLOOR OR UNIT NUMBER THREE AND
ALSO HAS SIX BEDROOMS AND THREE
BATHROOMS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ATTIC
SPACE OR THE THIRD FLOOR WITH
THE THREE BEDROOMS TWO
BATHROOMS AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE PROPOSED NEW BASEMENT UNIT
UNIT NUMBER ONE THAT WILL HAVE
THE FIVE BEDROOMS AND THREE
BATHROOMS.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATIONS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
YOU SEE THE FRONT AND REAR
ELEVATIONS, THE RIGHT SIDE
ELEVATION AND THE LEFT SIDE
ELEVATION.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK AND
MY INSPECTION OF THE SITE.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING SUBJECT
PROPERTY, THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE, THE FRONT FACADE, NEXT
SLIDE SHOWING DOWN THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY OR IN THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY AND A PORTION OF THE
PARKING LOT.
THIS IS ANOTHER PICTURE OF THE
EXISTING PARKING LOT.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR FACADE OF THE BUILDING AND
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTY TO THE
NORTH AND THE NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY TO THE SOUTH.
THAT INCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS READY, YOU
MAY BEGIN YOUR PRESENTATION.
YOU WILL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU YES.
OK, PERFECT.
PERFECT.
THANKS A LOT FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION HERE.
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE IT.
SO 413 OUT THE VISION.
IT&apos;S REALLY GREAT PROPERTY,
CENTRALLY LOCATED IN DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR.
MY FAMILY&apos;S OWNED IT SINCE I
BELIEVE NINETEEN NINETY FIVE.
SO IT&apos;S BEEN QUITE QUITE A LONG
TIME FOR NO WORK HAS BEEN DONE
TO THE INSIDE OF IT YOU KNOW
JUST JUST SMALL COSMETIC A
KITCHEN BATHROOM HERE AND THERE
SINCE SINCE WE PURCHASED IT AND
IT IS IT&apos;S LONG OVERDUE FOR A
PRETTY SIGNIFICANT REFRESH.
IT HAS YOU KNOW IT&apos;S ALL IT&apos;S
ALL SMALL UNITS SO SO IN TERMS
OF THAT IT&apos;S ALL RIGHT BUT IT
HAS THESE INTERIOR HALLWAYS
THAT RUN
THE ENTIRE LENGTH
OF THE BUILDING LOTS OF WAYS
THAT SQUARE FEET YOU TWO
INTERIOR STAIRWELLS AND YOU
KNOW, THERE&apos;S JUST SO MUCH
BETTER USE THAT WE CAN DO WITH
THE PROPERTY SO AND ALSO THE
BOILER SYSTEM IS IN NEED OF AN
ENTIRE REPLACEMENT RIGHT NOW.
THE ACTUAL THE UNIT THE
BASEMENT IS IS FAILING.
IT&apos;S BASICALLY ON LIFE SUPPORT
RIGHT NOW AND YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S
A LOT OF MINERALS AND SUCH AND
WITHIN THE PIPES THE SYSTEM
TOO.
SO IF WE WERE GOING TO DO
ANYTHING WOULD REQUIRE RIPPING
EVERYTHING OUT AND STARTING
FRESH AND YOU WITH WITH THAT
NOT NECESSARILY BEING THE BEST
TECHNOLOGY NOWADAYS WE THINK
IT&apos;S A REALLY GOOD TIME TO TO
DO AN ENTIRE REFRESH ON THAT AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO THESE PLANS THAT WE ARE
JUST TO GO BACK OUT ON THE
HOUSE BUILT IN THE LATE
EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS IT SINCE
NINETEEN ONE ON THE CITY SITE
BUT IT HAS A STACKED STONE
FOUNDATION WHICH IS STRAIGHT UP
AND DOWN STILL AFTER SO MANY
YEARS.
SO YOU HAVE FIVE FOUNDATIONS IN
FANTASTIC SHAPE SO IT&apos;S PERFECT
JUST KEEP EVERYTHING IN THE
SAME FORM AND YOU KNOW WE WOULD
HAVE TO UNDERPIN THE BASEMENT
AND WE&apos;D HAVE TO DIG UP THE
FLOOR BUT BUT OTHER THAN THAT
EVERYTHING&apos;S IN EXCELLENT,
EXCELLENT SHAPE.
IT&apos;S PERFECT FOR A RENOVATION
LIKE THIS.
SO LET&apos;S SEE HERE.
SO WHAT WE ARE THE FIRST FLOOR
WHICH IS CURRENTLY A ONE
BEDROOM IN A STUDIO APARTMENT I
BELIEVE IT IS BUT WITH A
STAIRWELL BUT THAT IS BEING
CONVERTED TO A SIX BETTER SO
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE GETTING A LOT
OF EXTRA EXTRA OCCUPANCY IN
THAT WHICH WHICH IS QUITE
DESIRABLE GIVEN THE LOCATION
THREE THAT ONE OF THREE
BATHROOMS AS WELL.
SO YOU KNOW, THINK QUITE A BIT
REALLY REFRESHING REFRESHING
IT.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;LL DO WE&apos;LL DO ON
UNFINISHED GRANITE COUNTERTOPS
THE WOOD FLOORING, EVERYTHING.
SO IT&apos;S GOING TO BE REALLY
ATTRACTIVE AND PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO LOVE LIVING THERE.
SECOND FLOOR, SAME SET UP SETUP
BETTER THAT WASHER DRYER AND
UNIT HIGH EFFICIENCY GREAT UNIT
HAS ITS OWN FURNACES AND WATER
HEATER.
SO YOU KNOW THOSE ARE ALL ALL
CONTAINED WITHIN THE UNIT NOT
NOT A COMMUNAL THING FOR THE
ENTIRE HOUSE WHICH PEOPLE AS
WELL THE TOP FLOOR WHICH IS
CURRENTLY TWO BEDROOMS WILL BE
GOING TO WE&apos;RE GOING TO ADD A
THIRD BEDROOM IN THERE WHILE
KEEPING THE GENERAL LAYOUT THE
SAME.
BUT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO GET AN
EXTRA BATHROOM AND EXTRA SHOWER
OUT OF IT AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
GET THEIR OWN HEATING SYSTEM AS
WELL WHICH WHICH THEY WILL
CERTAINLY DO LIKE THAT.
SO AND THEN THE NEW UNIT
OF BASEMENT IS CURRENTLY YOU
KNOW, IT DOESN&apos;T EVEN HAVE THE
REQUISITE CEILING HEIGHT FOR IT
TO BE LIVING SPACE BUT THE
BASEMENT IS CURRENTLY YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S JUST JUST THE BOILER
SYSTEM, LARGE HOT WATER HEATER
WASHER DRYER DOWN THERE.
THE COIN OPERATED SO YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S JUST REALLY A
LOT OF WAYS IT&apos;S BEING SO WE&apos;RE
PRETTY EXCITED TO TURN IT INTO
A FIVE BEDROOM REALLY GOOD
BEDROOM SIZE DOWN THERE AS
WELL.
THREE BATHROOMS.
SO YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A
SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT UPGRADE
FROM OBVIOUSLY WHAT&apos;S THERE
RIGHT NOW AND TO BE ABLE TO PUT
MORE BEDROOMS IN THAT PRIVATE
CENTRAL LOCATION, I THINK
EVERYONE&apos;S GOING TO OP ED.
SO LET&apos;S SEE HERE YOUR PROPERTY
JUST JUST GIVE ME AN IDEA
OF THE TENANTS NOW IT&apos;S LOCATED
ABOUT TWO BLOCKS FROM THE MAIN
DOWNTOWN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DORM.
SO I WOULD SAY THAT THE TARGET
AUDIENCE FOR THIS LOCATION IS
IT&apos;S USUALLY GOING TO BE
SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SO THESE UNITS ARE ACTUALLY
MORE DESIRED THAN SOME OF THESE
YOU KNOW THAT WE HAVE ONE UNIT
OR HAVE ONE UNIT CURRENTLY
THERE THAT&apos;S LESS THAN TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET FOR THE
ENTIRE UNIT.
IT&apos;S JUST A ONE BEDROOM.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT, YOU
KNOW, THINGS ARE GOING MORE IN
THE DIRECTION OF STUDENTS
WANTING TO LIVE TOGETHER WITH
MORE PEOPLE AND ALSO HAVE THEIR
OWN SPACE.
BUT YEAH, I THINK THIS IS MORE
OF WHAT THE MARKET DEMANDS
RIGHT ON THERE MORE OUT THERE.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S BENEFICIAL
FOR EVERYONE.
BUT LET&apos;S SEE HERE WE&apos;RE GOING
IN ARE ALSO GOING TO DO A
REFRESH TO THE OUTSIDE.
IT&apos;S GOT KIND OF OUTDATED
PLASTIC VINYL SIDING PROBABLY
GOING TO GO WITH THE BED OR
WHATEVER PRODUCT IS AVAILABLE.
THIS ONE ALTHOUGH IT&apos;S BEING
APPROVED NOW WE PROBABLY WON&apos;T
START UNTIL SOMETIME NEXT YEAR
BECAUSE IT&apos;S ALREADY THE
CURRENT APARTMENTS LEASE SO IT
MIGHT NOT START FOR ANOTHER
TWELVE MONTHS OR SO.
BUT IF IF THE BOARD BAD PRODUCT
IS THE MOST AVAILABLE THAT AT
THAT TIME GIVEN SUPPLY CHAIN
ISSUES I LIKE THAT&apos;S WHAT WE
PLAN.
BUT LET&apos;S SEE HERE JUST ME A
STAIRWELL DOWN IN THE BACK TO
THE BASEMENT UNIT AND WE&apos;RE
ALSO ANOTHER BENEFIT TOO IS
THAT IT HAS KIND OF A WEIRD
FIRE ESCAPE TO ACCESS THE REAR
UNITS THAT IT&apos;S PUSHED ALL THE
WAY TO ONE PROPERTY LINE THAT
WOULD BE RIPPED OFF AND THIS
RENOVATION AND WE WOULD JUST
BUILD A BRAND NEW STAIRWELL
SLASH FIRE ESCAPE AND THE
ENTRANCES UP THE BACK IN THE
CENTER OF THE PROPERTY AND YOU
KNOW, THEY&apos;LL GET THE KIDS WILL
GET A LITTLE TEXT-BASED SPACE
THERE AND THAT&apos;S ALSO GOING TO
BE A BENEFIT FOR EVERYONE IF I
RIGHT HERE AT FIVE MINUTES
CHRIS, IF YOU START AND I&apos;M ALL
SET I APPRECIATE IT AND I&apos;M
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, IF YOU&apos;RE HERE
IN PERSON, PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW STATE YOUR NAME SAYING NO
ONE IF THERE IS ANYONE ONLINE
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE CALL IN NOW
ONCE YOU&apos;VE CALLED IN PRESS
NINE IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING VIA
THE WEB LINK, PLEASE USE A
RAISED HAND FEATURE AND STAFF
WILL CALL ON YOU
.
MR. BARRETT, THERE ARE NO NEED
ON THE LINE AND THEREFORE NO
ONE&apos;S INDICATING THE HAND
RAISED.
THANK YOU.
THANKS ALEXIS.
WITH THAT SAID, WE ARE CLOSING
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND WE&apos;RE IN
DISCUSSIONS LIKE YEAH THIS IS
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD FOR ME
GIVEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD I LIVE
ACROSS THE STREET ABOUT TWO
HOUSES DOWN FROM THIS IN
COLLEGE TWO YEARS THE WITH THE
ISI RIGHT NEXT DOOR ON ONE SIDE
CAMPUS BEHIND IT OF STUDENT
RENTALS AROUND IT.
THIS SEEMS VERY MUCH IN LINE
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SEEMS LIKE NICE UPGRADES FOR
THE FOR THE BUILDING.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO BE SUPPORTING
THIS.
THIS IS VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
FOR ME AS WELL BUT I&apos;M GOING TO
BE VOTING AGAINST IT AT THE
LAST MEETING WE HAD ANOTHER
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE AND I&apos;M AND I
REMARKED TO A COUPLE OF MY
FELLOW BOARD MEMBERS HERE THAT
I&apos;M PARTICULARLY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE INCREASING NUMBER
OF PETITIONERS, MOSTLY
DEVELOPERS COMING IN WITH
ALTERATIONS TO CONFRONT
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND
SIGNIFICANTLY UPSIZING THE
AMOUNT OF THE IMPACT ON THE
COMMUNITY AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BY INCREASING SIGNIFICANTLY THE
NUMBER OF BEDROOMS FREQUENTLY
WITHOUT ANY ADDITIONAL PARKING
CONCERNS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD
RESIDENTS OR HISTORIC NATURE
OF NEIGHBORHOODS NONCONFORMING
MEANS IT DOESN&apos;T CONFORM TO
EXISTING CODES EVEN CURRENTLY
MEET CITY CURRENT CITY CODES
AND THEY&apos;RE ASKING NOW TO MAKE
A SIGNIFICANT CHANGE THAT WILL
PLACE NEW DEMANDS ON THE
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD AND ITS
RESIDENTS AND NEW DEMANDS ON
THE COMMUNITY.
I CONTINUE TO SEE ONE, TWO,
EVEN THREE OF THESE COMING
BEFORE THIS BOARD AT EACH
OF OUR MEETINGS MORE AND MORE
OF THESE AT THE SAME TIME I&apos;VE
SEEN PETITIONERS WHO WANT TO
MAKE A MODEST CHANGE TO THEIR
SINGLE FAMILY HOME ON A LARGE
PLOT THAT IS NOT A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE BUT THEY
WANT TO INCUR SLIGHTLY MORE
INTO A SETBACK AND WE END UP
DENYING THOSE BECAUSE OF THE
STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS THAT
THEY HAVE TO MEET TO GET MY
VOTE FOR THESE QUOTE
ALTERATIONS I WILL NEED FROM
HERE ON OUT TO NEED TO SEE
EVIDENCE SUPPORTED SUPPORT DID
EVIDENCE THAT ARE SIGNIFICANT
BENEFITS TO THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY DENSITY FOR
MAXIMIZING PROFIT WON&apos;T CUT IT
WITH ME.
DENSITY FOR DENSITY SAKE WON&apos;T
CUT IT FOR ME EVEN DENSITY THAT
SUPPOSEDLY REDUCES THE
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND HAS
POSITIVE EFFECTS ON CLIMATE
CHANGE UNLESS THE PETITIONER
CAN PRESENT CONVINCING EVIDENCE
TO SUPPORT THAT BENEFIT THAT
WON&apos;T CUT IT FOR ME EITHER.
I&apos;M VOTING ON THIS
.
I THINK THE GIVEN THAT THIS
SEEMS TO APPEAR TO BE A VOTE,
I&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION PUT A
MOTION UP TO POSTPONE THIS
UNTIL OUR JUNE.
SORRY CAN YOU HEAR ME?
WHAT NOW BE MOVED TO TABLE IT
AT ANY TIME.
YEAH.
SO SO I MEAN THEY COULD HAVE
ASKED RIGHT BUT WOULD THIS
WOULD JUST BE A POSTPONEMENT.
AH YOU KNOW AT OUR SO I I MOVED
TO POSTPONE THIS ITEM FOR
ACTION UNTIL OUR JUNE MEETING.
I SUPPORT THAT.
OK WE HAVE A MOTION FOR CHRIS
WITH SUPPORT FROM ELISABETH TO
POSTPONE PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
TWO DASHTI ZERO ZERO SIX FOUR
THIRTEEN SOUTH DIVISION STREET
TO OUR JUNE TWENTY SECOND THANK
YOU MEETING SO MCDANIEL YES
DAVE DID ALREADY KNOW ELIZABETH
NELSON YES CHRIS MADIGAN YES I
ALSO VOTE YES I BELIEVE FOR
THAT REQUEST TO POSTPONE IT
JUST NEEDS A SIMPLE MAJORITY
THAT IT DOESN&apos;T NEED FIVE
OH NO
THERE&apos;S NOTHING IN THE BYLAWS
ABOUT IT RULE
WITH US EVERYONE
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
MANY VOTES WE NEED FOR
POSTPONEMENT MOTIONS.
IT GETS A LITTLE TRICKY WHEN
WE&apos;RE AT A MINIMUM FORUM
.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE YES ON MY I
DON&apos;T SEE ANYTHING
IS
OK.
THIS IS THE CONCURRING VOTE
OF FIVE MEMBERS SHALL BE
NECESSARY TO REVERSE ANY ORDER
REQUIREMENT DECISION OR
DETERMINATION OF AN
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL OR BODY
TO DECIDE IN FAVOR OF AN
APPLICANT FOR TO GRANT A
VARIANCE UNLESS OTHERWISE
PROVIDED IN THESE RULES OTHER
DECISIONS ALSO REQUIRE THE
CONCURRING VOTE OF FIVE MEMBERS
A SEVEN POINT NINE SO IT DIDN&apos;T
PASS
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO A REQUEST FOR POSTPONEMENT
IS VAIL&apos;S OH CHRIS.
I JUST GO BACK INTO DISCUSSION
AND AS FOR THE APPLICANT SO
THIS ITEM IS GOING TO FAIL
TONIGHT.
BUT IF YOU SUBMIT THE RESUBMIT
APPLICATION FOR CONSIDERATION,
WHATEVER THE RULES ALLOW,
BELIEVE THAT WITH A GREATER
NUMBER OF OUR MEMBERS HERE THAT
THESE ITEMS TYPICALLY PASS AND
YOU&apos;LL FIND SUCCESS, IT APPEARS
THAT THE TWO ITEMS FOR THAT WE
REVIEW FOR ALTERATIONS HAVE
BEEN THAT IN THIS CASE I
BELIEVE YOU APPLY SOME EXTRA
CONSIDERATIONS IF I GUESS IT
DOESN&apos;T THE CODE SPECIFIES TWO
AND I THINK YOURS MEETS IT AND
I THINK YOU&apos;D FIND SUCCESS IF
YOU CAME BACK TO FO BOARD
ELISABETH.
I JUST WANT TO COMMENT THAT
WELL AT FIRST SIGHT WHEN I SAW
THIS PETITION AND I SAW HOW
MANY VETERANS WERE BEING
SQUEEZED OUT, I HAD A LITTLE
BIT OF THE SAME REACTIONS,
DAVE, THAT SORT OF WE&apos;RE JUST
WE&apos;RE SQUEEZING QUITE A LOT
OF VETERANS OUT OF THIS.
BUT I ACTUALLY DO FIND IT VERY
COMPELLING BASED ON LOCATION
AND IN DENSITY TO LOCATIONS
LIKE THIS.
IT&apos;S A DIFFERENT CONVERSATION.
IT&apos;S THAT MANY MORE BLOCKS AWAY
FROM CAMPUS AND I WILL CONFESS
I HAVE A BIAS FOR IMAGINING
PEOPLE IN LOCATIONS LIKE THOSE
STUDENTS IN LOCATIONS LIKE THIS
NOT HAVING AND NOT USING CARS
BECAUSE THAT WAS NOT MY
EXPERIENCE ON A COLLEGE CAMPUS
.
I CONSTANTLY HAVE TO REMIND
MYSELF THAT U OF M IS A
DIFFERENT KIND POPULATION BUT I
AM INCLINED TO APPROVE PROJECTS
LIKE THIS SIMPLY BECAUSE WE
CLEARLY NEED MORE HOUSING FOR
STUDENTS AND LOCATION AS CLOSE
AS THIS ONE.
I THINK IT&apos;S REALISTIC TO
CONTEMPLATE PEOPLE NOT HAVING
CARS SO I GUESS I WOULD URGE MY
COLLEAGUE TO CHANGE HIS VOTE.
THIS IS HIS HIS PREFERRED VOTE
.
I SO AGREE WITH ELIZABETH&apos;S
POINTS HERE A LOT.
I THINK THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS I
UNDERSTAND WHERE DAVE IS COMING
FROM BUT I THINK THIS IS NOT
THE SAME.
I MEAN EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S A FEW
BLOCKS AWAY, IT&apos;S A VERY
DIFFERENT BLOCK THAN WHAT WE
VOTED ON LAST MEETING.
I WILL SAY, HOWEVER, IF WE&apos;RE
NOT ABLE TO POSTPONE THIS, I&apos;M
ACTUALLY GOING TO INVOKE FIVE
POINT ONE SEE IN RECUSE MYSELF
AS A CONFLICT BECAUSE I FEEL
THAT IF THIS WERE TO GO THROUGH
IT WOULD LIKELY IN MY OPINION
INVOLVE A BENEFIT TO MY
EMPLOYER, THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, MY HOUSING MORE
STUDENTS CLOSER TO CAMPUS AND
IN THAT CASE THAT&apos;S A CONFLICT
THAT I CAN RECUSE MYSELF IN
WHICH CASE WE WOULD HAVE NO
QUORUM IN WHICH CASE WE CAN&apos;T
VOTE ON THIS BUT IT POSTPONE IT
DAY WE DON&apos;T DO THAT YOU THEN
YOU HAVE TO RECUSE YOURSELF
EVERY ONE OF THESE NOT SO WHY
ARE YOU ON YOUR SIDE?
WHY ARE YOU HERE?
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE IT IN YOUR
FUTURE.
I&apos;M THE ONE DETERMINING IF I
HAVE A CONFLICT 5.1 SAYS THAT
IF WE&apos;RE VOTING ON A MATTER
THAT MY EMPLOYER WOULD HAVE A
DIRECT FINANCIAL INTEREST IN
THE OUTCOME.
MY OPINION IS THAT INCREASING
DENSITY ONE BLOCK FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS
IS GOING TO LEAD TO MORE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN STUDENTS
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE
CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT WILL
IMPROVE THE FINANCIAL CONDITION
OF MY EMPLOYER.
UNFORTUNATELY MIKE, IF YOU WERE
GOING TO RECUSE YOURSELF YOU
WOULD HAVE HAD TO HAVE DONE SO
BEFORE DISCUSSION BEGAN ON THIS
PETITION ITEM.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S TOO LATE TO
RECUSE YOURSELF AT THIS POINT
UNLESS THE BOARD IDENTIFIES
THAT IT WAS A CONFLICT
INTEREST.
I WOULD AGREE WITH CANDACE.
WE&apos;VE ALREADY HAD THE PUBLIC
HEARING SO I THINK THAT WE NEED
TO SOMEONE NEEDS TO MAKE A
MOTION, HAVE A VOTE ON THIS
CASE AND IF IT DOESN&apos;T TURN OUT
IN FAVOR OF THE APPLICANT, THEN
HE ALWAYS HAS THE ABILITY TO
REAPPLY AND COME BACK AT
ANOTHER LATER DATE.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT&apos;S FINE.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
?
WE&apos;RE READY FOR A MOTION.
I&apos;LL MAKE THE MOTION.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZIBA TWENTY TO
TWENTY SIX FOR THIRTEEN SOUTH
DIVISION STREET ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THREE TO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
NEW HABITABLE SPACE IN THE
BASEMENT OF AN EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RENTAL STRUCTURE.
THE NEW BASEMENT UNIT WILL
CREATE HABITABLE LIVING SPACE
AND A SIX UNIT SEVEN BEDROOM
RENTAL HOME.
THE RENOVATION PROJECT WILL
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF UNITS FROM
SIX TO FOUR UNITS WHILE
INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF BEDROOMS TO TWENTY.
THE CONSTRUCTION MUST COMPLY
WITH THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
I HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE SUPPORT
SUPPORT FROM MIKE.
THANK YOU.
I VOTE YES MIKE DANIEL YES DATA
VERDIE NO ELIZABETH NELSON YES.
CHRIS MADIGAN YES.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
OK, MOVING ON TO PETITION YES I
COULD INDULGE THE CHAIR.
THIS IS AN ISSUE I WOULD LIKE
US AS A ZEBA TO HAVE A RETREAT
AND BRING IN SOMEBODY FROM THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT AND OR THE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT OF THE CITY
AND FACILITATE A DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE ISSUE BECAUSE I THINK
THERE ARE GREAT PHILOSOPHICAL
CONSIDERATIONS HERE AND I THINK
IT HAS A HUGE IMPACT ON THE
INTEGRITY OF OUR EXISTING CITY
BECAUSE IF WE CAN SO EASILY
GRANT ALTERATIONS TO THAT TO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES, YOU
KNOW, I WANT TO KNOW WHAT
EXACTLY HOW WE DEFINE WHATEVER
CRITERIA WOULD QUALIFY FOR
SOMEBODY FOR THAT OTHER THAN
THE ONES THAT I PUT FORWARD
THAT I WOULD NEED TO SEE IN
ORDER TO VOTE YES.
SO I WANT TO PUT THIS ON THE
TABLE.
I RESPECT MY FELLOW BOARD
MEMBERS OPINIONS THOUGH I
DISAGREE WITH THEM AND I THINK
WE NEED DEEPER DISCUSSION ABOUT
THIS ISSUE.
THANK YOU, DAVE.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
EIGHT THREE ZERO NINE FIVE
CEDAR BROOK ROAD CLARKE I
REMEMBER I&apos;M SORRY JOHN I JOHN
THAT YOU AND YOUR THE WELL I
MEAN WITH WHAT I JUST HEARD YOU
KNOW BECAUSE THIS IS A SMALL
NONCONFORMING ISSUE THE VERY
APPEARANCE I UNDERSTAND BUT
IT&apos;S STILL A NON CONFORMING LOT
AND AND HOME THE HOMES
NONCONFORMING.
SO WITH THAT SAID, I MEAN IT&apos;S
A DEFINITE NO FROM DAVE&apos;S AND
YEAH, I&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE MORE
PEOPLE I&apos;D LIKE TO COME BACK
WHEN THERE ARE PEOPLE OTHER
PEOPLE I AM I AM SO THE
APPLICANT FOR PETITIONS EVA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
EIGHT CEDAR BROOK ROAD HAS
REQUESTED TO BE POSTPONED SO WE
WILL STILL TAKE PUBLIC COMMENT
BECAUSE A PUBLIC NOTICE WAS
SENT OUT SO ANYONE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION WILL
STILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO
SO.
YOUR COMMENTS WILL STILL GO TO
THE RECORD AND THEN THE
PETITION WILL BE RE NOTICED
AGAIN FOR THE JUNE MEETING AND
YOU&apos;LL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK AGAIN AT THAT POINT BUT
NO DECISION WILL BE MADE TODAY.
I DON&apos;T JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
YES.
WHEN DO WE KNOW THERE&apos;S BEEN
MORE THAN FIVE PEOPLE THERE&apos;S
THIS FLIP A COIN I KNEW THERE
WAS GOING TO BE SIX AND TWO
BEFORE AND THEN ONE OTHER
PERSON HAS TOLD YOU THAT I
FOUND OK.
I WILL SAY IT&apos;S RARE THAT WE
ONLY HAVE FIVE.
THANK YOU.
THIS IT IS I THINK IT&apos;S GOING
TO HAPPEN TWICE IN SIX YEARS.
YEAH IT&apos;S I WAS GOING TO SAY
THAT AND I APPRECIATE BEING
TOLD WHAT HAPPENED TWO TIMES IN
SEVEN YEARS FOR ME SO OK IT&apos;S I
DO WANT TO SAY THAT I ALWAYS
ASK MY FELLOW BOARD MEMBERS
THAT IT&apos;S IMPORTANT FOR US TO
BE HERE JUST BECAUSE OF THE
SITUATION.
SO I RESPECT DIFFERING OPINIONS
AND I DON&apos;T LIKE TO SEE A
SITUATION LIKE THIS AND
ALL
RIGHT.
SO WE WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO
EIGHT THREE ZERO NINE FIVE
CEDAR BROOK ROAD.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW YOU WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
I CAN JUST NO NO MORE PEOPLE
COME WHO AREN&apos;T HERE.
THEY MIGHT NOT HEAR THIS SO
MORE COMMISSIONERS AT THE JUNE
MEETING ARE GOING TO HEAR WHAT
YOU&apos;RE ABOUT TO SAY.
AM I ABLE TO COME BACK?
YES.
THEY MAY NOT GO BACK AND WATCH
THIS RIGHT SIR?
I JUST WANT HER COMMENT TO BE
HEARD BY AS MANY PEOPLE AS
POSSIBLE.
SURE.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US THIS
EVENING.
THIS IS A PETITION BY NEIGHBORS
HERE TO BUILD A SUNROOM ON THE
BACK OF THEIR HOUSE.
I BELIEVE THE THE VARIANCE IS
FOR A TEN FOOT SUNROOM IN DEPTH
FROM THE EXISTING STRUCTURE IN
16 FEET WIDE IF I RECALL
CORRECTLY, I&apos;M ON THE SIDE
OF THEIR HOUSE DIRECTLY
ADJACENT TO IT AND I&apos;M
COMPLETELY AGAINST YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS.
MY NAME IS MARA AND MAYARA LAST
NAME KENTUCKY AND T MY ADDRESS
IS THREE ZERO EIGHT SEVEN CEDAR
BROOK ROAD.
SO IF YOU&apos;RE FACING THE HOUSE
I&apos;M THE NEIGHBOR DIRECTLY TO
THE LEFT OF THEM AND WE ARE IN
SUPPORT OF OF THIS.
I FIND THAT TEN FEET IS A
RELATIVELY SMALL AMOUNT.
IT&apos;S CERTAINLY NOT GOING TO
AFFECT US AS IT&apos;S ACTUALLY NOT
JUST NEXT TO US BUT IT&apos;S ON OUR
SIDE OF THE HOUSE TOO.
SO IF ANYONE THINKS THAT WOULD
POTENTIALLY HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
IT, IT WOULD BE US.
BUT I THINK THAT IT CONTINUES
TO IMPROVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD
HAVING A SLIGHTLY BIGGER
SUNROOM AREA.
THESE HOUSES WERE BUILT BACK IN
THE 90S AND OR LATE 80S AND
EARLY 90S IN THE DINING AREA AT
LEAST WHERE OURS ARE, WHICH IS
EXACTLY WHERE THERE WOULD BE IS
IS KIND OF NARROW AND SMALL SO
IT&apos;S HARD TO WALK AROUND YOUR
TABLE.
SO TO BE ABLE TO JUST HAVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE ROOM THERE IS
NO SEPARATE DINING ROOM AT
LEAST IN OUR HOUSE.
I DON&apos;T THINK YOUR HOUSE EITHER
SO IT&apos;S JUST NOT A LOT OF ROOM
IN THE KITCHEN TO BE ABLE TO
HAVE DINING AND A KITCHEN SO
TEN FEET SEEMS PRETTY
REASONABLE TO MY HUSBAND AND I
AND OUR KIDS.
AND IN ADDITION I KNOW THE SET
BACK IS THIRTY FEET WHICH COULD
BE A CONCERN FOR NEIGHBORS WHO
ARE BEHIND YOU.
BUT WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY NEIGHBORS
BEHIND US.
WE BACK TO GREEN ROAD SO
THERE&apos;S REALLY NO ONE BEHIND
THEM THAT WOULD BE LIKE OH WOW
YOU&apos;RE ENCROACHING KIND
OF CLOSE TO US AND SO I&apos;M IN
SUPPORT OF IT.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE FROM THE PUBLIC
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION.
IF SO, PLEASE COME FORWARD NOW
OF OF THREE AND I&apos;M NOT EXACTLY
SURE GUYS HOW YOU APPROVE
BECAUSE ON MY SIDE IT&apos;S ACROSS
THE STREET WE HAVE THE BACK
OTHER HOMES THEY&apos;RE STRUCTURES
VERY CLOSE TO THE LIMIT OF THE
PROPERTIES.
SO THE NEXT TO THE NEIGHBOR
NEXT TO ME HAS SOME THIS IS
SMALL HOUSE, ANOTHER HOUSE.
IT WAS BUILT MUCH MORE SO I
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW IS THE
RESTRICTION TO THE CORNERS AND
THE ENDS SO THE FRONT LINE BUT
THE BACK THE HOMES ARE NOT
ALIGNED AND I THINK THAT OTHER
THAN TO KEEP THE BETWEEN THE
BENT OF THE PROPERTY AND THE
HOUSE FOR SURE WHAT WE CAN SEE
IN THE BACK OF THE HOUSE IS BUT
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OBJECTION TO
THAT.
THANK THANK YOU
.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION OR IS ASKING
TERMINE WHETHER THEY WILL GET
SIGNATURES?
JUST WHAT I SUBMIT IT NOW OR
YOU CAN TURN IT AND I WILL
INCLUDE IT WITH THE PACKET FOR
THE OR IF YOU WOULD LIKE COULD
YOU SCAN THAT IN A PDF AND
EMAIL TO ME AND I&apos;LL MAKE SURE
IT&apos;S IN NEXT MONTH&apos;S PACKAGE.
THANK YOU.
BUT AGAIN I THOUGHT SO JUST
EMAIL THAT TO ME YOU&apos;LL SEE IN
THE MORNING.
YES SIR.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK ON THIS PETITION?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE IS ANYONE REMOTELY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE CALL IN NOW
ONCE YOU&apos;VE CALLED THEM PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND.
IF YOU&apos;RE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB
LINK, PLEASE USE THE RACE HAND
FUNCTION AND STAFF WILL CALL
ENGINEER.
THERE ARE NO ATTENDEES ON THE
LINE SO THEREFORE THERE IS NO
ONE TO RAISE THEIR HAND OR
PROMOTE THANK YOU ALEXIS.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
A LETTER OF OBJECTION FROM
WENDY KARMEN
.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE SHE LISTED HER
ADDRESS BUT SHE NOTED THAT SHE
IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE ORCHARD
FOR MAPLEWOOD HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATIONS AND WITH THAT I
WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND MS.
PARK AND I JUST WANT TO KNOW
THAT WE ARE NOT ACTUALLY A
SUBDIVISION WHERE THERE IS NO
WAY THERE IS AN INFORMAL WAY.
MAPLEWOOD ORCHARD HILLS
SUBDIVISION FOR THE THIRSTED
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS WHERE
WE&apos;RE LOCATED BUT THERE IS NO
FORMAL WAY THERE&apos;S NO ACTUALLY
DUES, THERE&apos;S NO ORGANIZATION,
THERE&apos;S NO VOTING AT PRESENT
ETC. THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
TWO DASH TWO ZERO ZERO SEVEN
ONE TWO ONE ONE WHITE STREET
AARON DID YOU WANT TO COME UP
FORWARD PLEASE STEP FORWARD.
CONSIDER THE FIVE COUNCIL
MEMBERS POOL TABLE FOR JUNE.
THAT&apos;S POSSIBLE.
I THINK.
YES, YES.
SO PETITION FOR ZIBA TWENTY TWO
ZERO ZERO SEVEN ADD TWELVE
ELEVEN WEIGHT STREET HAS ALSO
REQUESTED TO BE POSTPONED TO
THE JUNE MEETING.
SO WITH THAT SAID WE&apos;LL OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING IF THERE&apos;S
ANYONE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW YOU&apos;LL HAVE THREE
MINUTES
POSTPONE.
CAN WE JUST DEFER AND COME TO
THE NEXT TIME?
ABSOLUTELY YES.
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE WERE YOU TWENTY
SECONDS SIR.
SAME THE SAME PLACE SIX P.M.
THANK YOU.
YES.
NOTICES WILL BE SENT OUT AGAIN
NOTICES WE WILL IT&apos;LL BE RE
ADVERTISED AND IF THERE IS
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY WHO WISHES TO SPEAK TO
MR. TITIAN PLEASE CALL IN NOW
AND PRESS GARNI IF ACCESSING
THE WEB LINK PLEASE USE THE
RIGHT HAND FUNCTION
HERE AGAIN
WE HAVE NO PERSON ON THE LINE.
THANK YOU ALEXIS.
BUT THAT SAID THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE WILL
HEAR THIS PETITION IN JUNE AS
WELL.
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS WE HAVE REVIEW
OF BYLAWS.
SO AT OUR LAST MEETING WE
RECEIVED SOME REVISED BYLAWS
FROM THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S
OFFICE.
I THINK EVERYONE REQUESTED THAT
WE HAVE SOME EXTRA TIME TO
DIGEST THOSE AND REVIEW THEM
AND COME UP WITH ANY THOUGHTS,
COMMENTS, QUESTIONS.
SO I GUESS NOW&apos;S THE TIME THAT
WE DISCUSS THOUGHTS, COMMENTS,
QUESTIONS ON THOSE ELIZABETH,
LIKE THE LAST TIME I REMEMBER
ASKING FOR PEOPLE TO EMAIL ME
DID THE EMAIL I HAVE GOTTEN I
RECEIVED ANY EMAILS BUT YOU I
WAS GOING TO GET ALL THE
QUESTIONS AND EVERYONE&apos;S
RESPONSES, PUT THEM TOGETHER
COLLECTIVELY AND ADDRESS THEM.
BUT I THINK MAYBE WE SHOULD
WAIT UNTIL WE HAVE MORE MEMBERS
FOR THE NEXT TIME BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
MISSING THREE MEMBERS WHO MIGHT
WANT TO COMMENT ON THEM.
I KNOW LAST TIME WE HAD
ONE
CONCERN THAT I HAVE AND IT WAS
THEY WANTED TO STRIKE OUT
SOMETHING THAT SIX POINT ONE NO
MEMBERS SHALL SERVE MORE THAN
THREE CONSECUTIVE FULL TERMS IN
THE SAME OFFICE WE CHOSE THAT
WAS CHOSE TO STRIKE THAT
REMEMBER.
YES, I BELIEVE THAT WAS TIED.
YES.
SO THAT&apos;S THE ONLY THING I
RECEIVED IN THAT HEARING LAST
MONTH AND I HAVE NOT RECEIVED
ANY FEEDBACK FROM ANYONE THIS
PAST MONTH.
SO IF WE WANT TO MAYBE IT
DOESN&apos;T WE I DON&apos;T THINK WE
HAVE TO HAVE A VOTE ON IT.
LET&apos;S JUST MOVE TO NEXT MONTH
AND IF YOU WANT TO ME IF YOU
WANT TO COMMENT AND SENT ME
EMAILS THIS MONTH AND I WILL
TAKE THEM AND I CAN I CAN SEND
THEM OR WE CAN YOU CAN SEND
THEM TO EVERYBODY IN THE BOARD
OR IT JUST SENT ME AND I&apos;LL
MAKE SURE THEY GET AROUND
EVERYBODY OK AND THEN WE CAN
HAVE A DISCUSSION AND TRY TO
CLEAR UP SOME OF THIS BEFORE WE
EVEN COME COME IN HERE.
HOW IS THAT A YES OR NO THAT
COUPLE THUMBS UP IF THERE&apos;S
ANYTHING THAT THE CITY ATTORNEY
NEEDS TO BE DONE, WE CAN HAVE
THAT.
SO HOW ABOUT IF WE CAN GET THAT
ON IN TWO WEEKS AND THEN I&apos;LL
FORWARD ANY CONCERNS TO THE
CITY ATTORNEY AND THEY&apos;LL HAVE
TWO WEEKS TO RESPOND.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE A PLAN?
SOUNDS GREAT.
DO WE KNOW WHEN TODD IS COMING
BACK?
HE&apos;LL BE HERE FOR NEXT MONTH.
HE SAID YEAH.
OH BECAUSE I I&apos;D BE INCLINED I
MEAN LIKE YOU SAID, THERE&apos;S SO
MANY PEOPLE ABSENT I I NEED
MORE TIME BUT I I&apos;M INTERESTED
IN HEARING FROM OTHER MEMBERS
OF ZIBA DEFINITELY.
ALL RIGHT.
SO COMMENTS TO JOHN AND TO
WHEATLEY&apos;S HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENT
THEN THAT&apos;S I SAID LAST MONTH
THE DOG ATE MY HOMEWORK JOHN
MOVING ON TO NEW BUSINESS WE
HAVE NONE COMMUNICATIONS COULD
WE A NEW BUSINESS COULD WE
MAYBE PUT MY COMMENTS REGARDING
HAVING A MEETING OR A RETREAT
ABOUT THE THE WHOLE CONCEPT
OF THE AUTHORIZATION DO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO SOME
SORT OF A DISCUSSION WHERE WE
COULD THINK ABOUT THAT WITH
PLANNING STAFF OR LEGAL STAFF?
CAN YOU SEND ME AN EMAIL, DAVE,
WITH OUTLINING ALL YOUR
CONCERNS AND THEN I&apos;LL IT THE
LEGAL STAFF AND THEN I&apos;LL TALK
TO YOU ABOUT RIGHT NOW IT&apos;S
KIND OF HARD TO DO RETREATS OR
GET TOGETHER DUE TO COVID
THAT&apos;S WHAT CANCELED THIS PAST
ONE OR TWO YEARS.
I THINK WE HAD WE HAD ONE IN
JANUARY TWENTY TWENTY IN THE
BASEMENT AND WE HAVEN&apos;T ONE
SENSE BUT IT&apos;S UNDER THESE
HEALTH CONDITIONS WE&apos;RE FACED
WITH RIGHT NOW AND NOW NUMBERS
ARE SPIKING AGAIN.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW PEOPLE FEEL
ABOUT GETTING TOGETHER AND
DISCUSSING THINGS SO SENT ME AN
EMAIL OK AND I&apos;LL TRY TO GET
SOME FEEDBACK AND I&apos;LL LOOK AT
GETTING A ROOM RESERVED IF
EVERYONE IS OPEN TO HAVING A
MEETING ABOUT IT ONE NIGHT AND
ALSO I&apos;D BE WILLING TO TRY TO
GET US OUT TO OUR MEETING SPACE
AT A COVERED OUTDOOR MEETING
SPACE AT A PLACE LIKE
DOMINICK&apos;S OR SOME OTHER PLACE
IN TOWN.
SEND ME AN EMAIL WITH DETAILS
AND THEN I&apos;LL TAKE IT FROM
THERE PLEASE.
OK, WE&apos;LL THANK YOU ELIZABETH.
I JUST WANT TO OFFER SUPPORT
FOR DAVE&apos;S IDEA BECAUSE I, I, I
DIDN&apos;T MENTION EARLIER BUT I DO
APPRECIATE THE POINT THAT HE IS
MAKING IN TERMS OF THE ENORMOUS
ALTERATIONS THAT WE ARE
PERMITTING DOWNTOWN.
I MEAN FOR REASONS THAT I THINK
ARE VALID BUT THE RELATIVELY
SMALL ALTERATIONS THAT WE ARE
DENYING IN OTHER OUTLYING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND I FEEL THAT
DAVE I HEAR IT AND I I I
TOTALLY SEE WHAT YOU ARE
GETTING AT IF WE ARE IN NEW
BUSINESS I GUESS I HAVE AN
INQUIRY THAT I&apos;M CURIOUS ABOUT
HAVE WE GOTTEN ANY FEEDBACK,
JOHN?
DO YOU KNOW WE WE HAD A
CONVERSATION SOME MONTHS AGO OR
WAS IT A YEAR AGO NOW IT WASN&apos;T
THAT LONG AGO ABOUT AMENDING
THE EV CHARGING STATION
REQUIREMENTS.
IS THAT MOVING THROUGH
PLANNING?
I HAVEN&apos;T BEEN FOLLOWING THAT
ISSUE CLOSELY.
I&apos;M CURIOUS.
I WILL I HAVE A MEETING WITH
THE PLANNING MANAGER TOMORROW
MORNING AND I WILL GET YOU TO
ANSWER THAT TOMORROW, OK?
YEAH I MEAN I SUPPOSE I COULD
DIG THROUGH MINUTES.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THE ORDINANCE
THERE&apos;S AN ORDINANCE REVISION
COMMITTEE ON THAT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THEY&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT IT.
DO YOU KNOW I DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE
AT IF IT&apos;S HAS EVEN BEEN
BROUGHT UP TO THE WAR SO I
DON&apos;T THINK IT HAS I THINK
THERE ARE SOME CHANGES THIS
WENT THROUGH OR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT I DON&apos;T THINK
THEY&apos;VE GONE TO COUNCIL SO
WE&apos;RE LUCKY THIS EVENING WE
HAVE ALEXIS ALEXIS DELIO IS IN
CHARGE OF THE NRC AND SO I
THINK SHE WANTS TO COMMENT IN
CHARGE OF THE NRC REGARDING
PARKING AMENDMENTS.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDED MORE OF OF
AMENDMENTS TO SECTION FIVE
NINETEEN WHICH IS THE PARKING
STANDARDS AND THEY INCLUDED A
VARIETY OF THINGS SUCH AS
REMOVING THE MINIMUM PARKING
REQUIREMENT FOR ALL CATEGORIES
AND ADJUSTING ANY PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
THAT TRIGGER WILL BE DIFFERENT
.
BEFORE IT WAS A FOR CITY
COUNCIL AND NOW THE TRIGGER
WILL BE MORE RELATED TO THE OR
ITS PROPOSED TO BE MORE RELATED
TO THE SCOPE OF WORK WHEN
YOU&apos;RE WORKING ON THE PARKING
LOT ABOUT THE REQUIREMENTS WILL
BE TRIGGERED.
BUT IF YOU ARE DOING A PROJECT
THAT DOESN&apos;T INVOLVE PARKING
LOT WORK THAT WOULD NOT APPLY
AND IT ALSO CHANGED SOME OF THE
PERCENTAGES AND REMOVED ONE
OF THE CATEGORIES THE NOT NOT
THE THE THE PREPARATION AND NOT
THE INSTALL CHARGERS BUT THAT
MIDDLE CATEGORY FOR BE READY I
THINK IT&apos;S BE READY EVERYBODY
HERE ANYWAY AND THOSE WERE
RECENTLY PASSED ONE OR TWO
MEETINGS WERE RECOMMENDED FOR
APPROVAL BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN PREPARING TO SEND
IT TO COUNCIL WE DISCOVERED
THAT THERE WERE CROSS
REFERENCES AND OTHER SECTIONS.
SO WE&apos;RE WORKING ON THE
FORMATTING AND THE EDITING TO
MAKE SURE THEY HAVE A COMPLETE
PACKAGE GOING TO CITY COUNCIL.
THE COUNCIL WILL PROBABLY SEE
IT FOR A FIRST READING IN JUNE
OR JULY.
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S REALLY HELPFUL.
I APPRECIATE KNOWING THAT
BECAUSE THAT WAS SOMETHING I&apos;D
BEEN CURIOUS ABOUT EVER SINCE
WE HAD A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
WHERE IT WAS ALL CHARGERS ALL
THE TIME.
I&apos;LL I&apos;LL PARAPHRASE ALEXIS
DELIO IS QUITE FREQUENTLY THE
STAFF LIAISON TO THE ORACY.
THANK YOU ALEXIS
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE ADDRESSED PUBLIC COMMENT IF
THERE&apos;S ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK YES.
PLEASE COME FORWARD TO THE
MICROPHONE.
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
PLEASE INSTITUTIONALISM ROBERT
PLEASE.
I AM HERE FOR A LONG TIME IN
THE UNITED STATES.
I LIVE IN THE SOUTHERN GHETTO
THAT WE WILL SAY THEY ARE
EXPANDING AND EXPANDING THE
HOUSES I KNOW DEVELOPMENT AND
GROWING DEMANDS THAT BUT I
THINK THAT DEMANDS A BIT
OF CLARIFICATION AND
ORGANIZATION.
I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
STILL WE ARE NOT APPLYING TO
ASK FOR THE NEW CONSTRUCTIONS
ELECTRIC OUTLETS FOR THE CARS,
SOLAR PANELS.
THEY ARE GOING TO BUILD HOUSES.
THEY ARE GOING TO THE BUILDINGS
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO LAST FOR
MORE THAN FIFTY YEARS AND THE
BUREAU OF ENERGY IS JUST IN OUR
DOORS BUT WE ARE NOT IMPOSING
ANYTHING FIRST THING SECOND
THING YOU LIKE BUILDINGS CLOSE
TO UNIVERSITY WITH MORE PEOPLE
WILL LIVE FARTHER AWAY AND THE
STUDENTS KEEP GOING AFTER THESE
HOUSES BECAUSE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BUILT BIG BUILDINGS
WITH GYMNASTICS, WITH SWIMMING
POOLS, WITH ALL THE AMENITIES
THAT MOST OF THESE STUDENTS CAN
AFFORD.
THEY PREFER TO LIVE IN DIRTY
MESSY HOUSES BECAUSE IT&apos;S
CHEAPER RENT.
I WISH THAT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BEGINS TO FREE TO
BUILD AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSES
OR RENTAL UNITS.
I SEE HOW THE STUDENTS LEAVE
BECAUSE I LIVE IN THE STUDENT
GHETTO.
THE OTHER THING IS WE ARE
INCREASING THE POPULATION BUT
WE ARE NOT FOCUSING IN PARKING
SPACE.
YOU SHOULD SEE THE FACE THAT WE
HAVE.
IT&apos;S TERRIBLE WE DON&apos;T HAVE A
PLACE AND THEY DON&apos;T COME WITH
A VOLKSWAGEN.
THEY DON&apos;T COME WITH A SMALL
CARS.
THEY COME WITH MINIVANS WITH
TRUCKS LIKE THEY WERE BUILDERS
.
THAT IS NOT A SPACE.
THE OTHER THING I FEEL FEELS
PROUD OF HIS PROGRAM OF COMPOST
AND RECYCLING MY HUSBAND AND I
IN OUR STREET WE GO TO EMPTY
CONTAINERS.
SCHUCKERT OUT THE PLASTIC BAGS
SHOWED TO THEM THAT COMPOST IS
NOT GARBAGE CONTAINER.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN DO THAT
THEY DON&apos;T TEACH YOUR STUDENTS
WHAT IS CYCLING?
WHAT IS COMPOST, WHAT IS
GARBAGE?
THEY DON&apos;T CARE.
EVERYTHING IS A MESS.
YOU SHOULD SEE WE BETTER THE
POLICE TOO MUCH FOR THINGS THAT
WE SHOULDN&apos;T FIGHT.
THEY ARE DRUNK ALL THE TIME TOO
MUCH NOISE.
THEY DON&apos;T RESPECT ANYBODY AND
IF YOU COMPLAIN THEY ATTEMPT
AGAINST YOU.
MY HUSBAND THEY WE HAD TO GO TO
THE POLICE BECAUSE THEY THREW A
BIG STORM TO THE PORCH TO BREAK
WINDOWS.
THEY THREW EGGS
, THEY THREW
BOTTLES AND IT&apos;S BECAUSE IT&apos;S
TOO MUCH POPULATION OF STUDENTS
IN ONE UNIT AND THEY WANT TO
HAVE A WILD PARTY.
IT&apos;S TERRIBLE.
IT&apos;S TERRIBLE TO BE IN THE
STUDENT GET ON LEAVE IN
DOWNTOWN AND THERE IS NO
RESTRICTION.
THERE IS NO SUPPORT THEN I
DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE PLAN IS TO
MAKE BIGGER HOUSES WITH
STUDENTS UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THAT WANTS THE BUSINESS SHOULD
REDUCE HIS VACATION TO SWIMMING
POOLS, GYMNASTICS AND
EVERYTHING.
I&apos;M BUILDING BUILDINGS BUT
AFFORDABLE AND THE CITY SHOULD
SUPPORT EVERYBODY.
HOW IS IT POSSIBLE IN THE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS YOU CAN LEAVE
YOUR CONTAINERS OF GARBAGE NO
MORE THAN TWO HOURS BY THE
STUDENTS LEAVE ALL OF IT.
I SAVE LIVES BECAUSE I GO FOR
WALKS AND I PICK UP THE
CONTAINERS FROM THE BICYCLE
AREA THAT NOBODY CARES AND
NOBODY LOOKS AT LATE AT NIGHT
THEY DON&apos;T SEE IT OR THEY ARE
COMING WITH TRAFFIC AND THEY
DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT TO DO THE
BICYCLE BECAUSE THE CITY
DOESN&apos;T IMPOSE DIRTY CONTAINERS
THEY SHOULD BE BACK AT THE
COURTHOUSE.
YOU HAVE TEN SECONDS REMAINING
MAN.
I&apos;M SORRY TO MY COMPLAINT AND I
CAME FROM A DEVELOPING COUNTRY
AND I AM SEEING JUST THE
ENTRANCE OF A NORMAL THAT I
FEEL PROUD TO LIVE IN.
AMERICA IS BECOMING A JUNGLE IS
BECOMING A GARBAGE AREA THAT
SHOULD BE THE AREA THAT WE
SHOULD TAKE CARE DOWNTOWN TO
LOOK PROUD OF THE ENTRANCE.
OK, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M SORRY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
JUST ADDRESSED THE COUNCIL
CERTAINLY YOU HAVE THREE MEN
HAVE BEEN LIVING THERE SINCE
NINETEEN SEVENTY EIGHT ABOUT
THE HOUSE IS YOUR NAME.
SURE I&apos;M SORRY CHARLES NELSON A
TWENTY TWO BROOKWOOD PLACE IT&apos;S
BETWEEN WHITE AND PACKARD ONE
BLOCK LONG STREET THREE BLOCKS
FROM PAGANISTIC SO IT&apos;S LOWER
BERN&apos;S PARK WHEN I MOVED IN IT
WAS FIFTY PERCENT HOME OWNER
OCCUPIED AT ELEVEN KIDS ON THE
STREET SINCE WE ARE THE LAST
FAMILY LIVING ON THE STREET
I&apos;VE HAD PEOPLE FROM NEW YORK
GETTING AT US FOR ASKING THEM
TO COME YOU KNOW THE POLICE TO
COME AND QUIET DOWN AT TWO A.M.
AND THIS WOMAN CAME UP ON MY
STREET AND SAID WELL THIS IS A
STUDENT AREA SHOULD MOVE OUT.
I&apos;M BEGINNING TO TAKE YOUR
POINT BUT I&apos;D LIKE TO STAY.
I&apos;VE MADE THE HOUSE EXACTLY
LIKE I LIKE IT.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VERDANT, YOU KNOW, A
LOT OF TREES HOUSES HAVE BEEN
IMPROVED.
THE POPULATION HAS INCREASED
JUST TO HAVE MAYBE ONE OR TWO
CARS HER HOUSE NOW IT&apos;S UP TO
SIX NOW AND TWENTY FIVE
BUILDINGS ON THE STREET.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
REMARKS MR. DA.
ANYWAY WE REALLY THINK THIS
COUNCIL DOES A GOOD JOB.
YOU MAKE A GOOD IMPRESSION
OF BEING CIVIL AND TRACTABLE.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE IS ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK IF YOU ARE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND IF YOU&apos;VE CALLED IN OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION IF YOU
ARE ACCESSING VIA THE WEB LINK
.
ALEXIS, ARE THERE ANY CALLERS
OR ME?
THERE ARE NOT.
THANK YOU.
THANK WITH THAT SAID I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN FOR SUPPORT.
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR I
SUPPOSE WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.